docs(api): liquid presence verification (#15695)
OpenTrons/opentrons-api: api/docs/v2/pipettes/loading.rst

.. versionadded:: 2.0
.. versionchanged:: 2.16
    Added support for ``TrashBin`` and ``WasteChute`` objects.

.. _lpv:

Liquid Presence Verification
============================

> Liquid Presence Verification (LPV) is a pressure-based feature that gives all Opentrons pipettes the ability to detect the presence or absence of a liquid in a well or reservoir. You can use LPV to identify, avoid, and recover from liquid-related protocol errors or just check for the presence or absence of a fluid---all with or without interrupting a protocol run. You can activate LPV globally for an entire protocol run, or turn it on and off as needed. LPV is disabled by default.

Reviewer: Don't know if I'm qualified to review PR's but...
LPV will only work for the Flex. The OT-2 pipettes don't have the necessary pressure sensors.

Author: Oh, drat. That's right. My mistake. That paragraph was a last minute change. Needs to specify Flex-only.

.. versionadded:: 2.0
.. versionchanged:: 2.16
    Added support for ``TrashBin`` and ``WasteChute`` objects.

.. _lpd:

Liquid Presence Detection
=========================

> Liquid Presence Detection is a pressure-based feature that allows Opentrons Flex pipettes to detect the presence or absence of liquids in a well, reservoir, or other container. Liquid Presence Detection gives you the ability to identify, avoid, and recover from liquid-related protocol errors. You can enable this feature for an entire protocol run or toggle it on and off as required. Liquid Presence Detection works with Flex pipettes only and is disabled by default.

Reviewer 2: This feature name should be lowercase: "liquid presence detection".

.. note::

>     If your protocol uses :ref:`partial tip pickup <partial-tip-pickup>`, the pressure sensors for the Flex 8-Channel pipette are on channels 1 and 8. For the Flex 96-Channel Pipette, the pressure sensors are on channels 1 and 96.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    If your protocol uses :ref:`partial tip pickup <partial-tip-pickup>`, the pressure sensors for the Flex 8-Channel pipette are on channels A1 and H1. For the Flex 96-Channel Pipette, the pressure sensors are on channels A1 and H12.
```
Matches how we refer to these channels/nozzles for partial tip pickup.

> .. versionadded:: 2.20

Reviewer 2: Can remove this `versionadded` notice since no code shown yet in this section.

Author: @ecormany I was talking to Anthony, going back to that conversation about about LLD and partial tip pickup. He seems concerned that docs should include text reminding/warning users that the other channels can't sense liquid. Even though it is obvious, I was going to add another sentence along the lines of "these are the only pipette channels that can do LLD" or "When using partial tip pickup, other pipette channels cannot detect the presence/absence of a liquid." 

Need some help w/ guidance that points in 2 different directions–remove or keep and enhance.

Reviewer 2: Let's include a brief description of this behavior in the API Reference entries for `detect_liquid_presence()` and `require_liquid_presence()`

Author: Making a note to self as a reminder:

- Remove the note text
- Put it in the reference
- Add the info about there's no sensors on all the channels, partial tip_won't_ detect on those non-sensor channels.

.. Ed: Enabling instead of Enable?

Enable Liquid Presence Detection

> --------------------------------

Reviewer 2: Yes, I would go with the gerund form to match other headers. It would also be good to shorten these headers. They're at the fourth level of the side nav, so they can rely on the context provided by their parent section.

> The easiest, and recommended, way to use Liquid Presence Detection is by adding the optional Boolean argument, ``liquid_presence_detection=True`` to :py:meth:`.ProtocolContext.load_instrument` in your protocol. When ``True``, the robot will check for liquid on every aspiration. You can also turn this feature off and back on again later in a protocol. This example adds Liquid Presence Detection to the 8-Channel Pipette used in the sample protocol at the top of the page.

Reviewer 2: - Not recommended, because of how time-consuming it is.
- Remove comma after "argument" since the monospace formatting does the work (and this isn't an appositive).
- Last sentence, probably better to say "enables…for" instead of "adds…to"

.. code-block:: python

    right = protocol.load_instrument(
        instrument_name="flex_8channel_1000",
        mount="right",
        tip_racks=[tiprack2],
        liquid_presence_detection=True
    )

.. note::
    Accurate liquid detection requires fresh, dry pipette tips. Protocols using this feature must discard used tips after an aspirate/dispense cycle and pick up new tips before the next cycle. The API will raise an error if liquid detection is active and your protocol attempts to reuse a pipette tip or if the robot thinks the tip is wet.

Let's take a look at how all this works. First, tell the robot to pick up a new, clean tip::
    
    pipette.pick_up_tip(tiprack2)

Next, tell the robot to aspirate and dispense some liquid from the reservoir::

    pipette.aspirate(100, reservoir["A1"])

>     pipette.dispense(100, plate["A1"])

Reviewer 2: I don't think we gain anything from splitting up these code blocks. It makes it seem like the pickup action does something differently. It would be best to combine them and annotate where LPD happens with a comment.

Also, these don't match the pipette from before, which was loaded as `right`.

Author: Oops. I see it now. Rewriting, fixing.

Liquid detection takes place immediately prior to aspiration. Upon detecting a liquid, the pipette stops, raises itself above the liquid's surface, and then aspirates according to your protocol. Checking for a liquid adds time to your protocol run, so be aware of that before you use it. When the robot doesn't detect liquid during an aspiration, it raises an error and stops the protocol until the problem is resolved.

.. versionadded:: 2.20

Turning Liquid Presence Detection Off and On
---------------------------------------------

You can turn Liquid Presence Detection off and on throughout a protocol. To turn it off, set ``pipette.liquid_presence_detection=False`` at the point in a protocol where it needs to be disabled, usually between picking up a new tip and aspirating a liquid. This overrides the global argument, ``liquid_presence_detection=True`` that we set on :py:meth:`~.ProtocolContext.load_instrument`. Let's try this starting after picking up a new tip. 

.. code-block:: python
    
    pipette.pick_up_tip(tiprack2)
    pipette.liquid_presence_detection=False  #Liquid Presence Detection off

>     pipette.aspirate(100, reservoir["A2"])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    pipette.pick_up_tip()
    pipette.liquid_presence_detection=False  # liquid presence detection off
    pipette.aspirate(100, reservoir["A2"])  # aspirates immediately
```

no need to complicate with pickup location.

Going forward, the pipette will not perform a liquid check until you turn this feature back on. 

> To reactivate, add ``pipette.liquid_presence_detection=True`` at the point later in a protocol where it needs to be enabled, usually between picking up a new tip and aspirating a liquid.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To reactivate, set ``liquid_presence_detection=True`` at the point later in the protocol where it needs to be enabled, usually between picking up a new tip and aspirating a liquid.
```

.. code-block:: python

    pipette.pick_up_tip(tiprack2)
    pipette.liquid_presence_detection=True  #Liquid Presence Detection on again

>     pipette.aspirate(100, reservoir["A3"])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    pipette.pick_up_tip()
    pipette.liquid_presence_detection=True  # liquid presence detection on again
    pipette.aspirate(100, reservoir["A3"])  # detects liquid before aspirating
```

The robot will continue to check for a liquid until this feature is disabled again, or an empty well is detected (and the robot raises an error), or the protocol completes.

> See also :ref:`detect-liquid-presence` and :ref:`require-liquid-presence`.

Reviewer 2: It would be good to add context to these cross-references by moving them up to line 236 and adding an explanation that you should click through to these other sections if you want to do one-off detection.

Author: Line numbers are slightly different now. Moving content up to recommended location and adding more text about `detect_liquid_presence` and `require_liquid_presence`. Will write about them as standalone methods you can use without aspirating and give a summary of what they do. Methods will be linked to reference.
